# 2021-04-08

## Attendees

*   José Valim
*   Jeff Smith
*   Robert Bates
*   Jonatan Kłosko
*   Isaac Yonemoto
*   Justin Johnson
*   Sean Moriarity
*   Stas Versilov
*   Paulo Valente
*   Tim Rutten

## Notes

* Sean has made Axon publicly available. Sean mentioned there is a need for datasets/dataloading abstractions so we can feed data into Neural Networks. The components of Axon are well isolated and some parts, such as optimizations/training, may be moved to separate libraries if there is a need in the future.
* Jonatan gave everyone a sneakpeek on Livebook
* José talked about areas that the WG and the community should explore in the long term:
  * Graphs: Livebook will likely implement bindings for [Vega-Lite.js](https://vega.github.io/vega-lite/). However, there may also be interested on a non-web related graph library, perhaps something inspired by ggplot2.
  * Data analysis: this concern belongs outside of Nx. A possible route is binding for Rust libraries, such as Datafusion and Polars
  * Machine learning outside of NN: classification, regression, clustering, dimensionality, etc
  * NN serialization: Axon should be able to import/export models to ONNX, TF Lite, etc
  * Tensorboard bindings/support (mentioned by Sean)
* Sean mentioned the need for providing precompiled binaries of EXLA. José mentioned Docker images as a possibility, which will be necessary for both EXLA and Livebook
* Paulo asked what is the roadmap for complex numbers. José mentioned they are going to be tackled on Nx but support for Infinity and NaN currently have higher priority. José is also waiting for Erlang/OTP 24 to be officially released to bring these topics to discussions to the Erlang/OTP team
