# 2022-10-13

## Attendees

* José Valim
* Jonatan Kłosko
* Cocoa Xu
* Sean Moriarity
* Susumu Yamazaki (ZACKY)
* João Guilherme Madeira Araújo
* Jackal
* Paulo Valente
* Scott Mueller

## Notes

* José Valim talked about the work towards Nx v0.4
    * Nx v0.4 adds stateless PRNGs, which causes a performance regression in Axon
    * Before release, Nx needs to implement boundaries to prevent Nx Expr node duplication
* Sean is working on Axon v0.3 to release shortly after Nx v0.4. This involves incorporating PRNGs into the Axon initializer. There’s also more notebook material and guides. Now the model compilation is lazy, so the user no longer needs to define shapes, they can be determined lazily based on the model input. Sean also works on Axon.Serving to support easy batched inference with an Axon model.
* Jackal finished the basic implementation of an MLIR-based Nx compiler
    * Manx is a 100% Elixir MLIR library which lets you write MLIR compiler passes with Elixir code
    * Manx translates Nx into MLIR dialects and supports compilation paths to CPU and Vulkan
    * Beaver+Manx allow you to write MLIR in only Elixir, without dealing with low-level C++ things
* Zacky introduced and discussed the Nx Pelemay backend
    * Zacky also shared some benchmarks of the lightweight Pelemay backend for Nx against EXLA and Nx Binary Backend, which indicate Pelemay’s performance is comparable and better than EXLA and Nx in some areas
    * The Pelemay backend is implemented using Openblas
    * The Pelemay backend uses just only a single core, now, so it can be extended to be parallelized and made faster than now.
* Scott Mueller introduced himself, he is going through FastAI’s From Foundations to Stable Diffusion course and converting the notebooks to Elixir Livebooks.
* Cocoa discussed Evision and some challenges working with OpenCV and existing backends.
    * Cocoa also mentioned the possibility of implementing a very lightweight Nx backend. The footprint of EXLA and Torchx are very large
    * Cocoa added typespecs to all Evision functions, and shared that most Evision functions accept Nx Tensors out of the box which makes it very easy to use OpenCV with Nx.
    * Cocoa implemented SmartCells in Evision, which allow you to toggle between raw, tensor, and image representations of OpenCV objects.
* Jonatan discussed some new features of Livebook
    * Jonatan also shared the paper he presented at a previous meeting got published
* Paulo discussed his work on encapsulating EXLA callbacks into optional calls (boundaries), which should minimize some duplication in expressions
* José discussed progress on Scholar which implements traditional machine learning algorithms in Nx
