# 2022-02-10

## Attendees

* José Valim
* Jonatan Kłosko
* Cocoa Xu
* Sean Moriarity
* Susumu Yamazaki (ZACKY)
* Mark Holmes
* Jean Carlos
* Christopher Grainger
* Mateusz Słuszniak
* João Guilherme Madeira Araújo
* Philip Sampaio
* Jackal

## Notes

* José Valim: Nx v0.1 was released. Next steps are optional backends with support on Torchx and a more complete backend implementation for EXLA.
* Sean Moriarity: We are close to Axon v0.1, only model serialization is missing and there is a pending issue in the Nx repo. Basic support for attention layers is in a branch to support transformers. There have been contributions to Axon ONNX as well.
* Sean Moriarity mentioned it would be interesting to have [https://github.com/google/jaxopt](https://github.com/google/jaxopt)
* Chris Grainger is focusing on Explorer again and there are many pull requests coming. Chris is looking into running a complete pipeline, which will also need tokenizers and dimensionality reduction.
* Discussion about use cases for Elixir and Machine Learning:
    * Embedded and Nerves
    * Real-time learning
    * Distributed learning
    * Federated Learning
* Jonatan Kłosko is working on a set of exploratory Kinos for Livebook, such as camera access. Wojtek is working on desktop apps for both macOS and Windows.
* Jonatan Kłosko worked on implementing evolutionary algorithms on top of Nx. Using tensor-based operations in Evolutionary Algorithms is a novel idea.
* Cocoa Xu: The most important thing to address in Evision is how to pass parameters to OpenCV. The C++ relies a lot on overloading and that is complicated to translate to Elixir. OpenCV provides some convenience for neural networks but it only works for the inference part. Perhaps it is possible to have an Evision backend for Nx.
* Susumu Yamazaki developed NxEvision, a bridge between Nx and Evision. [https://github.com/zeam-vm/nx_evision](https://github.com/zeam-vm/nx_evision) This is tiny code, so he recommends it to be merged into Evision.
* Jackal is working on a project bridging Elixir and MLIR.
* Susumu Yamazaki got a research grant for the Pelemay backend, which is planned as an Nx backend that compiles Nx code into native code with SIMD instructions and BLAS operations, especially optimized for general ARMv8 CPUs and Apple Silicon. This project will start soon. He is interested in collaboration with Jackal’s Elixir and MLIR project.
* Robert Bates mentions he fixed regressions in Nixa (turned out to be some legacy slicing syntax + to_scalar vs to_number). Now he is starting to slowly add new models to Nixa as time allows.
* Jean is working on bindings for Yggdrasil (a decision forest library by Google). Currently the project compiles via NIFs.
